autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35818733.md, before:

---
title: "Pmid_35818733"
date: 2022-07-17T21:48:10+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["atopic dermatitis", "skin microbiome", "microbiota", "infants"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35818733/)

# Abstract

The aim of this study was to investigate the early-life development of the skin microbiome in atopic dermatitis. Nineteen infants with atopic dermatitis and 19 healthy infants were evaluated 3 times, at 3 months intervals, within the first 30 months of life. Tape-strips were collected from volar forearms, cheeks, and eczema lesions, and the skin microbiome was assessed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Both the community structure and richness of the skin microbiome of infants with atopic dermatitis differed significantly from that of healthy infants, with greater richness in healthy infants. For infants with atopic dermatitis, the community composition was not dominated by Staphylococci. For healthy infants, community composition and richness correlated significantly with age, while such a pattern was not revealed in subjects with atopic dermatitis. This suggests a slower maturation of the skin bacterial communities in atopic dermatitis, which precedes the staphylococcal predominance observed in older children and adults.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35818733.md, after:

---
title: "Pmid_35818733"
date: 2022-07-17T21:48:10+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["atopic dermatitis", "skin microbiome", "microbiota", "infants"]
---

[Pubmed Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35818733/)
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.2340/actadv.v102.2275)

#### Copyright and License Information

Copyright (c) 2022 Caroline M. Olesen, Maja-Lisa Clausen, Tove Agner, Maria Asplund, Linett Rasmussen, Yasemin T. Yüksel, Paal S. Andersen, Thomas Litman, Anders J. Hansen, Christopher J. Barnes

This work is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License.

This is an Open Access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution-NonCommercial 4.0 International License (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc/4.0/), allowing third parties to copy and redistribute the material in any medium or format and to remix, transform, and build upon the material for non-commercial purposes, provided proper attribution to the original work.


# Abstract

The aim of this study was to investigate the early-life development of the skin microbiome in atopic dermatitis. Nineteen infants with atopic dermatitis and 19 healthy infants were evaluated 3 times, at 3 months intervals, within the first 30 months of life. Tape-strips were collected from volar forearms, cheeks, and eczema lesions, and the skin microbiome was assessed by 16S rRNA sequencing. Both the community structure and richness of the skin microbiome of infants with atopic dermatitis differed significantly from that of healthy infants, with greater richness in healthy infants. For infants with atopic dermatitis, the community composition was not dominated by Staphylococci. For healthy infants, community composition and richness correlated significantly with age, while such a pattern was not revealed in subjects with atopic dermatitis. This suggests a slower maturation of the skin bacterial communities in atopic dermatitis, which precedes the staphylococcal predominance observed in older children and adults.
