autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35807909.md, before:

---
title: "Maternal Dietary Patterns during Pregnancy and Child Autism-Related Traits: Results from Two US Cohorts"
date: 2022-07-17T21:24:36+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["autism spectrum disorder", "diet", "western diet", "maternal"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35807909/)

# Abstract

We examined the relationship between maternal intake of established dietary patterns and child autism-related outcomes in two prospective cohorts in the United States. Participants were drawn from the Early Autism Risk Longitudinal Investigation (EARLI, n = 154) and the Nurses' Health Study II (NHSII, n = 727). Dietary information was collected via food frequency questionnaires (FFQs) and used to calculate the empirical dietary inflammatory pattern (EDIP), Alternative Healthy Eating Index (AHEI), Western and Prudent dietary patterns, and the alternative Mediterranean Diet (aMED) score. Primary analyses examined associations with continuous autism-related traits as measured by the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS), and secondary analyses with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis. We used crude and multivariable quantile regression fixed at the 50th percentile to examine associations between quartiles of dietary patterns and SRS scores, and logistic regression to examine associations with ASD diagnosis. There was suggestion of a positive association with the Western diet (Q4 vs. Q1, ß = 11.19, 95% CI: 3.30, 19.90) in EARLI, though the association was attenuated with adjustment for total energy intake, and no clear associations were observed with other dietary patterns and ASD diagnosis or SRS scores. Further work is needed to better understand the role of maternal dietary patterns in ASD and related outcomes.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35807909.md, after:

---
title: "Maternal Dietary Patterns during Pregnancy and Child Autism-Related Traits: Results from Two US Cohorts"
date: 2022-07-17T21:24:36+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["autism spectrum disorder", "diet", "western diet", "maternal"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35807909/)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Rachel Vecchione, Siwen Wang, Juliette Rando, Jorge E. Chavarro, Lisa A. Croen, M. Daniele Fallin, Irva Hertz-Picciotto, Craig J. Newschaffer, Rebecca J. Schmidt, and Kristen Lyall

Copyright © 2022 by the authors.

Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

# Abstract

We examined the relationship between maternal intake of established dietary patterns and child autism-related outcomes in two prospective cohorts in the United States. Participants were drawn from the Early Autism Risk Longitudinal Investigation (EARLI, n = 154) and the Nurses' Health Study II (NHSII, n = 727). Dietary information was collected via food frequency questionnaires (FFQs) and used to calculate the empirical dietary inflammatory pattern (EDIP), Alternative Healthy Eating Index (AHEI), Western and Prudent dietary patterns, and the alternative Mediterranean Diet (aMED) score. Primary analyses examined associations with continuous autism-related traits as measured by the Social Responsiveness Scale (SRS), and secondary analyses with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) diagnosis. We used crude and multivariable quantile regression fixed at the 50th percentile to examine associations between quartiles of dietary patterns and SRS scores, and logistic regression to examine associations with ASD diagnosis. There was suggestion of a positive association with the Western diet (Q4 vs. Q1, ß = 11.19, 95% CI: 3.30, 19.90) in EARLI, though the association was attenuated with adjustment for total energy intake, and no clear associations were observed with other dietary patterns and ASD diagnosis or SRS scores. Further work is needed to better understand the role of maternal dietary patterns in ASD and related outcomes.
