autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35806489.md, before:

---
title: "Probing the Skin-Brain Axis: New Vistas Using Mouse Models"
date: 2022-07-17T22:00:35+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["atopic dermatitis", "gut microbiome", "skin-brain axis", "psoriasis"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35806489/)

# Abstract

Inflammatory diseases of the skin, including atopic dermatitis and psoriasis, have gained increasing attention with rising incidences in developed countries over the past decades. While bodily properties, such as immunological responses of the skin, have been described in some detail, interactions with the brain via different routes are less well studied. The suggested routes of the skin-brain axis comprise the immune system, HPA axis, and the peripheral and central nervous system, including microglia responses and structural changes. They provide starting points to investigate the molecular mechanisms of neuropsychiatric comorbidities in AD and psoriasis. To this end, mouse models exist for AD and psoriasis that could be tested for relevant behavioral entities. In this review, we provide an overview of the current mouse models and assays. By combining an extensive behavioral characterization and state-of-the-art genetic interventions with the investigation of underlying molecular pathways, insights into the mechanisms of the skin-brain axis in inflammatory cutaneous diseases are examined, which will spark further research in humans and drive the development of novel therapeutic strategies.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35806489.md, after:

---
title: "Probing the Skin-Brain Axis: New Vistas Using Mouse Models"
date: 2022-07-17T22:00:35+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["atopic dermatitis", "gut microbiome", "skin-brain axis", "psoriasis"]
---

[Pubmed Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35806489/)
[MDPI link](https://www.mdpi.com/1422-0067/23/13/7484)
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.3390/ijms23137484)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Aliće Weiglein,Evelyn Gaffal and Anne Albrecht

Copyright © 2022 by the authors.

Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).


# Abstract

Inflammatory diseases of the skin, including atopic dermatitis and psoriasis, have gained increasing attention with rising incidences in developed countries over the past decades. While bodily properties, such as immunological responses of the skin, have been described in some detail, interactions with the brain via different routes are less well studied. The suggested routes of the skin-brain axis comprise the immune system, HPA axis, and the peripheral and central nervous system, including microglia responses and structural changes. They provide starting points to investigate the molecular mechanisms of neuropsychiatric comorbidities in AD and psoriasis. To this end, mouse models exist for AD and psoriasis that could be tested for relevant behavioral entities. In this review, we provide an overview of the current mouse models and assays. By combining an extensive behavioral characterization and state-of-the-art genetic interventions with the investigation of underlying molecular pathways, insights into the mechanisms of the skin-brain axis in inflammatory cutaneous diseases are examined, which will spark further research in humans and drive the development of novel therapeutic strategies.
