autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35811667.md, before:

---
title: "GW4064 Alters Gut Microbiota Composition and Counteracts Autism-Associated Behaviors in BTBR T+tf/J Mice "
date: 2022-07-17T21:31:08+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["ASD", "autism spectrum disorder", "GW4064", "BTBR", "microbiota", "sociability"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35811667/)

# Abstract

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is considered a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by significant social, communication, and behavioral impairments. The gut microbiota is increasingly considered a promising therapeutic target in ASD. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) has recently been shown to modulate the gut microbiota. We hypothesized that FXR agonist GW4064 could ameliorate behavioral deficits in an animal model for autism: BTBR T+Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) mouse. As expected, administration of GW4064 rescued the sociability of BTBR mice in the three-chamber sociability test and male-female social reciprocal interaction test, while no effects were observed in C57BL/6J mice. We also found that GW4064 administration increased fecal microbial abundance and counteracted the common ASD phenotype of a high Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes ratio in BTBR mice. In addition, GW4064 administration reversed elevated Lactobacillus and decreased Allobaculum content in the fecal matter of BTBR animals. Our findings show that GW4064 administration alleviates social deficits in BTBR mice and modulates selective aspects of the composition of the gut microbiota, suggesting that GW4064 supplementation might prove a potential strategy for improving ASD symptoms.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35811667.md, after:

---
title: "GW4064 Alters Gut Microbiota Composition and Counteracts Autism-Associated Behaviors in BTBR T+tf/J Mice "
date: 2022-07-17T21:31:08+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["ASD", "autism spectrum disorder", "GW4064", "BTBR", "microbiota", "sociability"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35811667/)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Jiayin Liu, Chuanqi Liu, Zhanyuan Gao, Lianyu Zhou, Junwei Gao, Yi Luo, Tianyao Liu, and Xiaotang Fan 

Copyright © 2022 Liu, Liu, Gao, Zhou, Gao, Luo, Liu and Fan
This is an open-access article distributed under the terms of the Creative Commons Attribution License (CC BY). The use, distribution or reproduction in other forums is permitted, provided the original author(s) and the copyright owner(s) are credited and that the original publication in this journal is cited, in accordance with accepted academic practice. No use, distribution or reproduction is permitted which does not comply with these terms.

# Abstract

Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is considered a heterogeneous neurodevelopmental disorder characterized by significant social, communication, and behavioral impairments. The gut microbiota is increasingly considered a promising therapeutic target in ASD. Farnesoid X receptor (FXR) has recently been shown to modulate the gut microbiota. We hypothesized that FXR agonist GW4064 could ameliorate behavioral deficits in an animal model for autism: BTBR T+Itpr3tf/J (BTBR) mouse. As expected, administration of GW4064 rescued the sociability of BTBR mice in the three-chamber sociability test and male-female social reciprocal interaction test, while no effects were observed in C57BL/6J mice. We also found that GW4064 administration increased fecal microbial abundance and counteracted the common ASD phenotype of a high Firmicutes to Bacteroidetes ratio in BTBR mice. In addition, GW4064 administration reversed elevated Lactobacillus and decreased Allobaculum content in the fecal matter of BTBR animals. Our findings show that GW4064 administration alleviates social deficits in BTBR mice and modulates selective aspects of the composition of the gut microbiota, suggesting that GW4064 supplementation might prove a potential strategy for improving ASD symptoms.
