autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_31336737.md, before:

---
title: "Dietary Factors and Modulation of Bacteria Strains of Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii: A Systematic Review"
date: 2022-07-17T21:11:35+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["diet", "dietary interventions", "microbiome", "gut microbiome", "Akkermansia muciniphila", "Faecalibacterium prausnitzii", "randomized controlled trials", "systematic review"] 
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31336737/)

# Abstract

Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii are highly abundant human gut microbes in healthy individuals, and reduced levels are associated with inflammation and alterations of metabolic processes involved in the development of type 2 diabetes. Dietary factors can influence the abundance of A. muciniphila and F. prausnitzii, but the evidence is not clear. We systematically searched PubMed and Embase to identify clinical trials investigating any dietary intervention in relation to A. muciniphila and F. prausnitzii. Overall, 29 unique trials were included, of which five examined A. muciniphila, 19 examined F. prausnitzii, and six examined both, in a total of 1444 participants. A caloric restriction diet and supplementation with pomegranate extract, resveratrol, polydextrose, yeast fermentate, sodium butyrate, and inulin increased the abundance of A. muciniphila, while a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols decreased the abundance of A. muciniphila. For F. prausnitzii, the main studied intervention was prebiotics (e.g. fructo-oligosaccharides, inulin type fructans, raffinose); seven studies reported an increase after prebiotic intervention, while two studies reported a decrease, and four studies reported no difference. Current evidence suggests that some dietary factors may influence the abundance of A. muciniphila and F. prausnitzii. However, more research is needed to support these microflora strains as targets of microbiome shifts with dietary intervention and their use as medical nutrition therapy in prevention and management of chronic disease.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_31336737.md, after:

---
title: "Dietary Factors and Modulation of Bacteria Strains of Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii: A Systematic Review"
date: 2022-07-17T21:11:35+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["diet", "dietary interventions", "microbiome", "gut microbiome", "Akkermansia muciniphila", "Faecalibacterium prausnitzii", "randomized controlled trials", "systematic review"] 
---

[Link to paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/31336737/)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Sanne Verhoog,1,* Petek Eylul Taneri,2 Zayne M. Roa Díaz,1 Pedro Marques-Vidal,3 John P. Troup,4 Lia Bally,5 Oscar H. Franco,1 Marija Glisic,6 and Taulant Muka1

Copyright © 2019 by the authors.

Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

# Abstract

Akkermansia muciniphila and Faecalibacterium prausnitzii are highly abundant human gut microbes in healthy individuals, and reduced levels are associated with inflammation and alterations of metabolic processes involved in the development of type 2 diabetes. Dietary factors can influence the abundance of A. muciniphila and F. prausnitzii, but the evidence is not clear. We systematically searched PubMed and Embase to identify clinical trials investigating any dietary intervention in relation to A. muciniphila and F. prausnitzii. Overall, 29 unique trials were included, of which five examined A. muciniphila, 19 examined F. prausnitzii, and six examined both, in a total of 1444 participants. A caloric restriction diet and supplementation with pomegranate extract, resveratrol, polydextrose, yeast fermentate, sodium butyrate, and inulin increased the abundance of A. muciniphila, while a diet low in fermentable oligosaccharides, disaccharides, monosaccharides, and polyols decreased the abundance of A. muciniphila. For F. prausnitzii, the main studied intervention was prebiotics (e.g. fructo-oligosaccharides, inulin type fructans, raffinose); seven studies reported an increase after prebiotic intervention, while two studies reported a decrease, and four studies reported no difference. Current evidence suggests that some dietary factors may influence the abundance of A. muciniphila and F. prausnitzii. However, more research is needed to support these microflora strains as targets of microbiome shifts with dietary intervention and their use as medical nutrition therapy in prevention and management of chronic disease.
