autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35805495.md, before:

---
title: "A Parent-Focused Creative Approach as a Treatment for a High-Functioning Child with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) in Korea: A Case Study"
date: 2022-07-17T21:36:06+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["ASD", "autism spectrum disorder", "case study", "case report", "art therapy", "parent intervention"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35805495/)

# Abstract

This study was conducted on a 6-year-old girl with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in Korea. The case was initiated in February 2015, and intensive treatment was provided for one year. Then, the case was monitored over the course of 6 years until December 2021. The intervention plan was an art therapy-based treatment plan (Individual Therapeutic Education Plan: ITEP) with two integral foci: (1) creative arts-based parent counseling and education and (2) didactic art therapy with the child. This was a new type of integral approach that was not a standard of care practice in Korea, acknowledging the importance of including parents in therapy and the notion of creative arts therapy. There was no scientific evidence supporting this qualitive approach; however, the intervention was a notable success, sustaining a positive outcome-the intervention (1) reduced the anxiety levels of both the mother and the child in the short term; (2) enhanced the child-parent relationship as well as the home environment of the child while the art therapy-based counseling and education increased the mother's competence; and (3) enhanced the communicative and adaptive functioning of the child and the mother, with art becoming the supportive breakthrough for their emotional obstacles. The findings suggest that a parent-focused creative approach impacts parental changes and child development: the evidence indicates that parent-driven interventions are a viable option for parents and children with ASD to build a better home environment that supports the child's development.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35805495.md, after:

---
title: "A Parent-Focused Creative Approach as a Treatment for a High-Functioning Child with Autism Spectrum Disorder (ASD) in Korea: A Case Study"
date: 2022-07-17T21:36:06+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["ASD", "autism spectrum disorder", "case study", "case report", "art therapy", "parent intervention"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35805495/)

#### Copyright and License Information

Author: Jung Eun Jeanne Park

Copyright © 2022 by the author.
Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

# Abstract

This study was conducted on a 6-year-old girl with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) in Korea. The case was initiated in February 2015, and intensive treatment was provided for one year. Then, the case was monitored over the course of 6 years until December 2021. The intervention plan was an art therapy-based treatment plan (Individual Therapeutic Education Plan: ITEP) with two integral foci: (1) creative arts-based parent counseling and education and (2) didactic art therapy with the child. This was a new type of integral approach that was not a standard of care practice in Korea, acknowledging the importance of including parents in therapy and the notion of creative arts therapy. There was no scientific evidence supporting this qualitive approach; however, the intervention was a notable success, sustaining a positive outcome-the intervention (1) reduced the anxiety levels of both the mother and the child in the short term; (2) enhanced the child-parent relationship as well as the home environment of the child while the art therapy-based counseling and education increased the mother's competence; and (3) enhanced the communicative and adaptive functioning of the child and the mother, with art becoming the supportive breakthrough for their emotional obstacles. The findings suggest that a parent-focused creative approach impacts parental changes and child development: the evidence indicates that parent-driven interventions are a viable option for parents and children with ASD to build a better home environment that supports the child's development.
