---
title: "Terminalia chebula Retz. extract ameliorates the symptoms of atopic dermatitis by regulating anti-inflammatory factors in vivo and suppressing STAT1/3 and NF-ĸB signaling in vitro"
date: 2022-07-17T21:45:36+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["atopic dermatitis", "NF-ĸB", "STAT1", "STAT3", "Terminalia chebula", "herbal extract"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35830757/)

# Abstract

**Background**: Terminalia chebula (TC) is a traditional medicinal plant used for treating various diseases in humans. However, pharmacological mechanisms underlying the effects of TC in atopic treatment remain unelucidated.

**Hypothesis/purpose**: We investigated the therapeutic effects of TC extract in a mouse model of atopic dermatitis (AD) in vivo and the anti-inflammatory mechanism in vitro.

**Study design/methods**: For the in vivo study, AD was induced by Dermatophagoides farinae extract (Dfe) in NC/Nga mice. After 14 days of oral administration, the effects of TC concentrations of 30, 100, and 300 mg/kg were analyzed by assessing morphological changes visually; measuring serum levels of inflammatory chemokines/cytokines, IgE, histamine, MDC, TARC, RANTES, and TSLP using ELISA kits; and counting infiltrated mast cells. For in vitro analyses, we used IFNγ/TNF-α-stimulated human keratinocyte cell lines to study the mechanism of action. The production of chemokines/cytokines in the IFNγ/TNF-α-stimulated HaCaT cells was measured using ELISA and a bead array kit. The signaling pathways were analyzed by western blotting and the expression of the transcriptional factors using RT-PCR and luciferase assay.

**Results**: Administration of TC significantly alleviated AD-like symptoms in vivo and decreased the ear thickness, dermatitis score, keratinization, and mast cell infiltration. It also resulted in decreased serum levels of IgE, histamine, and inflammation-related mediators MDC, TARC, RANTES, and TSLP compared with those in the Dfe treatment group. Moreover, TC downregulated the expression of the inflammatory chemokines RANTES and MDC in IFNγ/TNF-α-stimulated HaCaT cells. TC inhibited phosphorylated STAT1/3 and NK-κB subunits and nuclear translocation of NF-κB. It also suppressed the transcription of IFNγ, IL-6, IL-8 and MCP-1 in the IFNγ/TNF-α-stimulated HaCaT cells. TC and its constituents, chebulic acid, gallic acid, corlagin, chebulanin, chbulagic acid, ellagic acid, and chebulinic acid, strongly inhibited the nuclear translocation of NF-κB, STAT1, and STAT3 and decreased the expression of inflammatory cytokines at the mRNA level.

**Conclusions**: Overall, TC extract alleviated AD-like symptoms by regulating anti-inflammatory factors in vivo and suppressing STAT1/3 and NF-κB signaling in vitro. In addition, our results show the in vivo effect of partial improvements in AD, as well as the in vitro effect on inflammatory factors by the constituents of TC. This finding provides that TC extract and its components could be potential therapeutic drugs for AD.
