---
title: "Exploring the Differences in the Gut Microbiome in Atopic Dermatitis According to the Presence of Gastrointestinal Symptoms"
date: 2022-07-17T20:37:47+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["atopic dermatitis", "gut microbiome", "gut-skin axis"]
---

[Link to paper](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35806975/)

# Abstract


(1) Background: Atopic dermatitis (AD) is a multifactorial chronic allergic skin disease. Gastrointestinal (GI) functions have been suggested to be associated with its incidence or severity. As modulators of the gut-skin axis, gut microbes might affect the pathophysiology of AD. (2) Methods: We divided a cohort of patients with AD according to their GI symptoms as follows: AD with epigastric fullness (ADwEF), AD with epigastric rigidity (ADwER), and AD without GI symptoms (ADw/oGI). The gut microbial profiles were analyzed using 16S rRNA amplicon sequencing. (3) Results: The microbiota of the ADwER group showed low diversity indices in richness and evenness and formed a separate cluster to the other groups. In the ADwER group, the proportion of Bacteroides increased, while that of Prevotella decreased; functional pathways related to phosphotransferase systems were not abundant relative to those in the ADw/oGI group. Taken together, patients with AD with GI symptoms have a different microbiome from patients with simple AD. (4) Conclusions: In an exploratory study aimed at evaluating the relationship between AD and GI symptoms, the gut microbiome in patients with AD with GI symptoms differed from that in patients with simple AD, and this result could serve as a basis for further gut-skin axis studies. 

