---
title: "Association between cord blood metabolites in tryptophan pathway and childhood risk of autism spectrum disorder and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder"
date: 2022-07-17T21:27:21+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["ASD", "autism spectrum disorder", "tryptophan", "ADHD", "pathway", "metabolites"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35810183/)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Ramkripa Raghavan, Neha S. Anand, Guoying Wang, Xiumei Hong, Colleen Pearson, Barry Zuckerman, Hehuang Xie, and Xiaobin Wang

Copyright © The Author(s) 2022

Open Access This article is licensed under a Creative Commons Attribution 4.0 International License, which permits use, sharing, adaptation, distribution and reproduction in any medium or format, as long as you give appropriate credit to the original author(s) and the source, provide a link to the Creative Commons license, and indicate if changes were made. The images or other third party material in this article are included in the article’s Creative Commons license, unless indicated otherwise in a credit line to the material. If material is not included in the article’s Creative Commons license and your intended use is not permitted by statutory regulation or exceeds the permitted use, you will need to obtain permission directly from the copyright holder. To view a copy of this license, visit http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/.

# Abstract

Alterations in tryptophan and serotonin have been implicated in various mental disorders; but studies are limited on child neurodevelopmental disabilities such as autism spectrum disorder (ASD) and attention-deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). This prospective cohort study examined the associations between levels of tryptophan and select metabolites (5-methoxytryptophol (5-MTX), 5-hydroxytryptophan (5-HTP), serotonin, N-acetyltrytophan) in cord plasma (collected at birth) and physician-diagnosed ASD, ADHD and other developmental disabilities (DD) in childhood. The study sample (n = 996) derived from the Boston Birth Cohort, which included 326 neurotypical children, 87 ASD, 269 ADHD, and 314 other DD children (mutually exclusive). These participants were enrolled at birth and followed-up prospectively (from October 1, 1998 to June 30, 2018) at the Boston Medical Center. Higher levels of cord 5-MTX was associated with a lower risk of ASD (aOR: 0.56, 95% CI: 0.41, 0.77) and ADHD (aOR: 0.79, 95% CI: 0.65, 0.96) per Z-score increase, after adjusting for potential confounders. Similarly, children with cord 5-MTX ≥ 25th percentile (vs. <25th percentile) had a reduction in ASD (aOR: 0.27, 95% CI: 0.14, 0.49) and ADHD risks (aOR: 0.45, 95% CI: 0.29, 0.70). In contrast, higher levels of cord tryptophan, 5-HTP and N-acetyltryptophan were associated with higher risk of ADHD, with aOR: 1.25, 95% CI: 1.03, 1.51; aOR: 1.32, 95% CI: 1.08, 1.61; and aOR: 1.27, 95% CI: 1.05, 1.53, respectively, but not with ASD and other DD. Cord serotonin was not associated with ASD, ADHD, and other DD. Most findings remained statistically significant in the sensitivity and subgroup analyses. 