---
title: "Eucommia ulmoides Oliver's Multitarget Mechanism for Treatment of Ankylosing Spondylitis: A Study Based on Network Pharmacology and Molecular Docking"
date: 2023-11-04T09:52:55+01:00
draft: false
tags: ["ankylosing spondylitis", "herb", "Eucommia ulmoides"]
---

[Pubmed Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/36267087/)
[DOI](https://doi.org/10.1155/2022/3699146)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Hong-Sheng Zhang, Sheng-Nan Zhang, Wei-Kun Guo, Sheng-Hua He


Copyright © 2022 Hong-Sheng Zhang et al. 

This is an open access article distributed under the Creative Commons Attribution License, which permits unrestricted use, distribution, and reproduction in any medium, provided the original work is properly cited.

# Abstract

**Background**: Eucommia ulmoides Oliver (EU) is a plant used in Chinese medicine as a medicinal herb to treat autoimmune and inflammatory conditions. We used network pharmacology to examine the active ingredients and estimate the main targets and pathways affected by EU when it is used to treat ankylosing spondylitis (AS).

**Materials and methods**: The Traditional Chinese Medicine Systems Pharmacology Database and Analysis Platform was used to search for active ingredients in EU and their target proteins. The GeneCards Database was used to find AS-related targets. The targets from the EU and AS searches that coincided were selected by constructing a Venn diagram. Then, a STRING network platform and Cytoscape software were used to analyse the protein-protein interaction (PPI) network and key targets. The strong affinity between EU and its targets was confirmed using molecular docking techniques. The Gene Ontology and the Kyoto Encyclopaedia of Genes and Genomes (KEGG) pathway enrichment analysis of overlapping targets was performed using the database for annotation, visualization, and integrated discovery online tool.

**Results**: The number of active ingredients against AS in EU was discovered to be 28. Major targets against AS in the PPI network and core targets analyses were identified as IL-1B, PTGS2, IL-8, nMMP-9, CCL2, MYC, and IL-2. Furthermore, molecular docking studies showed the strong affinity between EU's bioactive molecules and their AS targets. Enrichment analysis revealed that active ingredients from EU were involved in a variety of biological processes, including the response to molecules derived from bacteria, extracellular stimuli, nutrient levels, and the regulation of reactive oxygen species, all of which are mediated by interleukin-17, TNF-α, and other signalling pathways.

**Conclusion**: The therapy for AS using EU involves a multitarget, multipathway, and multiselection mechanism that includes anti-inflammatory and analgesic effects. This study provides a theoretical basis for future research into targeted molecular therapies for AS.
