autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35807841.md, before:

---
title: "Overlapping Mechanisms of Action of Brain-Active Bacteria and Bacterial Metabolites in the Pathogenesis of Common Brain Diseases"
date: 2022-07-17T21:05:51+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["bacteria", "dysbiosis", "leaky gut", "gut-brain axis", "microbiota", "neurodegeneration", "neurodevelopment", "ASD", "autism spectrum disorder"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35807841/)

# Abstract

The involvement of the gut microbiota and the metabolites of colon-residing bacteria in brain disease pathogenesis has been covered in a growing number of studies, but comparative literature is scarce. To fill this gap, we explored the contribution of the microbiota-gut-brain axis to the pathophysiology of seven brain-related diseases (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, major depressive disorder, and bipolar disorder). In this article, we discussed changes in bacterial abundance and the metabolic implications of these changes on disease development and progression. Our central findings indicate that, mechanistically, all seven diseases are associated with a leaky gut, neuroinflammation, and over-activated microglial cells, to which gut-residing bacteria and their metabolites are important contributors. Patients show a pro-inflammatory shift in their colon microbiota, harbouring more Gram-negative bacteria containing immune-triggering lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in their cell walls. In addition, bacteria with pro-inflammatory properties (Alistipes, Eggerthella, Flavonifractor) are found in higher abundances, whereas lower abundances of anti-inflammatory bacteria (Bifidobacterium, Coprococcus, Eucbacterium, Eubacterium rectale, Faecalibacterium, Faecalibacterium prasunitzii, Lactobacillus, Prevotella, Roseburia) are reported, when compared to healthy controls. On the metabolite level, aberrant levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are involved in disease pathogenesis and are mostly found in lower quantities. Moreover, bacterial metabolites such as neurotransmitters (acetylcholine, dopamine, noradrenaline, GABA, glutamate, serotonin) or amino acids (phenylalanine, tryptophan) also play an important role. In the future, defined aberrations in the abundance of bacteria strains and altered bacterial metabolite levels could likely be possible markers for disease diagnostics and follow-ups. Moreover, they could help to identify novel treatment options, underlining the necessity for a deeper understanding of the microbiota-gut-brain axis.

Commit message:

Added copyright and license info

autoinmune-disease-papers/content/pmid_35807841.md, after:

---
title: "Overlapping Mechanisms of Action of Brain-Active Bacteria and Bacterial Metabolites in the Pathogenesis of Common Brain Diseases"
date: 2022-07-17T21:05:51+02:00
draft: false
tags: ["bacteria", "dysbiosis", "leaky gut", "gut-brain axis", "microbiota", "neurodegeneration", "neurodevelopment", "ASD", "autism spectrum disorder"]
---

[Link](https://pubmed.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/35807841/)

#### Copyright and License Information

Authors: Tanja Patricia Eicher and M. Hasan Mohajeri

Copyright © 2022 by the authors.

Licensee MDPI, Basel, Switzerland. This article is an open access article distributed under the terms and conditions of the Creative Commons Attribution (CC BY) license (https://creativecommons.org/licenses/by/4.0/).

# Abstract

The involvement of the gut microbiota and the metabolites of colon-residing bacteria in brain disease pathogenesis has been covered in a growing number of studies, but comparative literature is scarce. To fill this gap, we explored the contribution of the microbiota-gut-brain axis to the pathophysiology of seven brain-related diseases (attention deficit hyperactivity disorder, autism spectrum disorder, schizophrenia, Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, major depressive disorder, and bipolar disorder). In this article, we discussed changes in bacterial abundance and the metabolic implications of these changes on disease development and progression. Our central findings indicate that, mechanistically, all seven diseases are associated with a leaky gut, neuroinflammation, and over-activated microglial cells, to which gut-residing bacteria and their metabolites are important contributors. Patients show a pro-inflammatory shift in their colon microbiota, harbouring more Gram-negative bacteria containing immune-triggering lipopolysaccharides (LPS) in their cell walls. In addition, bacteria with pro-inflammatory properties (Alistipes, Eggerthella, Flavonifractor) are found in higher abundances, whereas lower abundances of anti-inflammatory bacteria (Bifidobacterium, Coprococcus, Eucbacterium, Eubacterium rectale, Faecalibacterium, Faecalibacterium prasunitzii, Lactobacillus, Prevotella, Roseburia) are reported, when compared to healthy controls. On the metabolite level, aberrant levels of short-chain fatty acids (SCFAs) are involved in disease pathogenesis and are mostly found in lower quantities. Moreover, bacterial metabolites such as neurotransmitters (acetylcholine, dopamine, noradrenaline, GABA, glutamate, serotonin) or amino acids (phenylalanine, tryptophan) also play an important role. In the future, defined aberrations in the abundance of bacteria strains and altered bacterial metabolite levels could likely be possible markers for disease diagnostics and follow-ups. Moreover, they could help to identify novel treatment options, underlining the necessity for a deeper understanding of the microbiota-gut-brain axis.
